If we have a look at our index.html page,
we got everything prepared.
We've got a loading text which we could display whilst we're fetching the data
and then we got the actual weatherData
but of course we need to replace those dummy texts here, to display description, temperature and city
name. Now to do all of that, we first need to get references to those elements
and that of course is a job for the init.js file.
So in here, I'll fetch a couple of new things,
I'll fetch my loading text here and I can do this with a query selector of course, the question is just for
what do I query?
Well it has an ID of load,
so I can simply use that,
so I will just use #load to fetch it by ID.
Notice that I always use query selector and not query selector all because I am always interested
in the first element of this case,
if I were interested in a second element, I needed query selector all and then access the right
element in the array of elements I get back, just as a refresher.
I also need to fetch my weatherBox,
this is the overall weather item here.
So I will fetch this, also with a query selector of course, query selector and maybe you already
saw it but selector, this does also have an ID of weather,
so I'll use this ID to get it
and then I need to fetch the city description and temperature here.
Now I can do this in a couple of ways,
for example I can get the
weatherCity, so let's start with that,
so the very first element here,
I could get this by using my weatherBox
and then the first element child and this should get me my
weatherCity here of course. That's one way,
then I also need the weatherDescription and here again I'll use a query selector, just mixing some things up
here to see them all.
So the query selector with the ID weatherDescription here, just with the hashtag again
and then weatherDescription
and finally the temperature here of course too
and here I can also use my weatherBox and then access the last element child, since it is the last
element child here, right, the temperature is the last element in this weather div. So with that, I'm accessing
all, I'm loading all those fields, I'm getting references to all those elements which I'll need and I then
may use those elements in my app.js file of course.
Now here, I could write all the code into this function but I think this function is already long enough,
so I'll create a new one which I'll call updateWeather
and this expects to get some weatherData with which it should update the screen here and I
want to use my weatherCity here and set the text content,
this is another property available on this HTML element which basically will replace the text
between the opening and closing tag,
so this city named dummy text as it is now.
This will replace this text with whatever I enter now here on the right side of the equal sign,
so to whatever I set it to. I will set it to weatherData.cityName and weatherData of
course is just my weather object here, I'll pass that,
so I want to replace it here. So I can actually call this right now, I will call updateWeather here and
pass my weatherData object to it. Of course, I not only want to update the city name, I also want to update
the description, so here I'll also replace the text content with weatherData.description and
I'll do the very same for the temperature, so text content here should be equal to weatherData.temperature
and I can't really tell you why this is green. So with that,
I'm updating all of that
but we still wouldn't see it because it's hidden,
right?
So we should probably access
weather, this weatherBox here, weatherBox here indeed,
so we should access the weatherBox, the style and set its display to block. So I'm just changing the CSS
style of this weatherBox.
Let's see this, if I now type London and click show weather, what will happen?
I see the information for London here
and if I now type Berlin, it updates to Berlin. So that's great but it can be improved a tiny bit.
I also have that loading text, right?
You can see it here
and I want to display this while the data is being fetched.
Now the data is fetched super fast here but nonetheless, it might be slower on other machines or depending
on your internet connection and so on.
So I want to display this
and in order to display this, right here in this search weather function, when I start searching for
the weather, I will use my loading text reference which I created in my init.js here,
so this is just the loading text element
and I will set a display style here to block, so to display it and I will also set the weatherBox
style to none to hide it.
Now of course it's hidden by default but if you already loaded a city, I went to hide it again
until the new city has been loaded.
Therefore of course here at the end, I also need to, when I display the weather info,
I need to switch my loading text to be hidden,
so here style
display should be none because I don't want to see the loading text
if the data is there.
So with all that, if I now search for London, you should see loading text for a fraction of a second, closely
watch this part of the screen,
do you see it?
London, and if I search for Berlin, you should see loading flicker up for part of a second here too,
yes.
You can see it for
very short duration
and that is all the code that you see in this little app. We are able to fetch data from a third-party service
to live update our view without ever reloading the page.
We're able to convert the Celsius degrees to Fahrenheit and use saw getters and setters,
you saw how to define a property, you saw quite a lot of things covered throughout this course, condensed in this
tiny little example
and together with all the other examples in this course, I'm sure you're well prepared to use all that
knowledge in whatever project you want to use it.
I wish you best of luck for that and see you in all the other videos, whatever you might watch,
I'm always happy to greet you. Bye.